This video provides a basic introduction to navigating SituationAnalyst.
When you open Situation Analyst you will see the map; the zoom in, zoom out, and current location buttons; and the navigation menu.
Within the navigation menu is the Briefing mode, the Manage Layers menu, the Edit menu, and the Tools menu;
the Help button, the Map legend, and the Workspaces menu.
In the main display, you can hold and drag to move around the map.
On PCs you can zoom in by using your scroll wheel
or by holding shift while clicking and dragging over the area you want to zoom in on.
On touch devices, you can zoom by pinching in or out.
On all devices, you can use the plus or minus buttons to zoom in or out, as well as the location button to go to your current location.
Selecting a location on the map will open an info panel with details about the selected location.
Selecting Navigation will open directions in your device’s default map application.
The Briefing Mode provides information about active incidents, committed resources, and response activities.
The Manage Layers menu allows users to select and customize visible layers on the map.
You can change the basemap, as well as the basemap opacity.
You can turn on or off individual layers on the map by selecting the layer name.
You will know a layer is on when there is a blue bar to the left of the layer name.
With the search bar, you can search for specific layers as well as locations.
In the gear menu, you can export layer data and clear layer settings.
The Edit menu allows users to add layers into SituationAnalyst.
Any layers added will be removed when you change workspaces or when the webpage is refreshed.
The Tools menu provides a different set of tools based on the open Workspace.
More information on Workspace-specific tools can be found in the user guide.
In all workspaces, the Tools menu allows for measuring distances or lengths and searching within layers.
This is different from the Manage Layers menu search bar, which searches for the layers themselves and not for items within the layer.
The Workspaces menu allows you to switch between workspaces.
Each workspace provides a different set of layers.
The Active Incidents workspace is the default workspace. It provides location details for active incidents.
The Predictive Services workspace provides weather activity data.
The Intelligence & Resources workspace provides in-depth intelligence for fire operations.
Airborne Intelligence is located in the Intelligence & Resources workspace.
The Aviation workspace provides pilots with flight planning information.
Automated Telemetry Units, or ATU, are located in the Aviation workspace.
The Fuels and Planning workspace provides information for burning operations.
The Lightning workspace provides lightning and thermal detection data from satellites.
The Natural Hazards workspace provides data for natural hazards.
The Workspaces menu also allows users to swap between EGP applications. Different users have access to different applications.
Applications that you are not able to access will appear greyed out.
The Lightning Viewer application is different than the Lightning workspace.
The legend shows the symbols on the map and what they represent.
You can dock or undock the legend by selecting the Docking icon.
Selecting the Help button takes you to the help page.
The help page includes training materials, such as user guides, tutorial videos, and FAQs.
For additional assistance, please contact the Helpdesk Toll-Free at (866)-244-7677,
or visit the IIA Help Desk webpage at iiahelpdesk.nwcg.gov to email or chat with an agent.